What was to follow or to continue to carry on?
Seguir.
And how was I continue or I carry on or I follow?
Sego.
Sego, good.
If you want to say I continue speaking, here we use the ing.
I continue speaking.
So how would that be?
Sigo hablando.
He continues speaking.
Sigue hablando.
She continues speaking.
You formal continue speaking.
It's probable that he continues speaking.
So in English we will probably say he'll probably continue speaking, but in Spanish it is probable that he continues speaking.
So how would that be?
Very good.
It's probable that he continues speaking.
So after Segir, to get the meaning of continue, we can use the ing.
What was to be for characteristics?
Ser.
Ser, good.
How would you make the ing form of ser?
Siento.
Siendo.
Free in the sense of not requiring any money is gratis in Spanish.
Gratis.
This is where we get gratuitous from in English.
It's a bit gratuitous.
It's unnecessary.
It's free.
It's extra.
Gratis.
So you can say it's imperative that it continues to be free.
So it's imperative that it continues being free.
How would you say that?
Good.
It's imperative that siga siendo gratis.
To start, we said that we had comensar and empezar.
Comenzar is of course easier to remember and use because it sounds like commence.
But M Pesar is probably more common.
So you can use whichever you like now.
How would you say it's spectacular that
They start to speak Spanish.
Now after start to connect to the next two forms you need a
There are just a handful of verbs that are not verbs of movement, for example, like ir, volver
salir that need a to connect.
Apart from these, there are just a handful of verbs that use some preposition to connect.
And empesar and commenç are two of them.
So how would you say it's spectacular that they begin to speak Spanish?
Spectacular is the same word in Spanish
Es spectacular?
Almost the same word.
Oh right.
Espectacular.
Good.
Es espectacular that they begin
Es espectacular que comiencen a hablar español.
It's spectacular that they start to speak Spanish.
Now after comenzar el empezar you could also put the ing form and the meaning would change a little.
It would mean it's
Spectacular that they start out speaking Spanish.
Now in English there's not a lot of difference that they begin to speak Spanish, that they begin speaking Spanish.
Both in English mean to start speaking Spanish.
But in Spanish, if you use the ing here, it would mean that they start out speaking Spanish, like right from the beginning.
So when I'm speaking about these courses, for example, I say that we start out speaking Spanish right from the beginning.
Now speaking about that in Spanish, I would use the ing here.
So it's spectacular that they start out speaking Spanish.
Espanyol.
Good.
And here we don't need the a because we're not connecting to a two form.
What was the verb to finish or to terminate?
Hmm Terminar.
Terminar.
Now if you want to say a sentence like I want you guys to speak with me when you finish selling them.
We will say when you finish to sell them.
Here we won't use the ing.
But to finish, terminar, is also one of those verbs that needs a preposition to connect.
to the next two form.
In this case the preposition is de.
So to finish selling them is terminar de vender.
So I want you guys to speak with me when you finish selling them.
So the first bit is I want you guys to speak with me.
How is that bit?
Quiero que hablen conmigo.
Good.
Mood tense.
Quiero que hablen conmigo.
Good.
I want that you.
talk with me.
Quiero que hablen conmigo when you finish selling them.
So when you finish and we're still speaking to you guys
Quanto terminen?
Good.
Why did you use the mood tense there?
Quando terminen?
Because it's it's the future when Good.
When quando refers to generally, we won't use the mood tense, we just use the present
And here referring to a future event that hasn't happened after quando we use the mood tense.
Well remembered.
And we're not going to use selling, we're going to use
Two sell and we connect that with de Quanto termine de venderlo
Good vendor los.
Good.
So all together I want you guys to speak with me when you finish selling them
Quiero que hablen conmigo cuando terminen de venderlos.
So this means I want you guys to speak with me when you finish selling them.
But terminar we can also use like end up.
I want you guys to speak with me when you end up selling them
So using the ing form after terminar instead of the and the two form gives us this meaning of end up
So if you wanted to say I want you guys to speak with me when you end up selling them.
So I want you guys to speak with me
When you end up selling them.
So we will say when you finish and then we will actually use the ING.
Good.
I want you guys to speak with me when you end up selling them.
So there is a difference here depending on whether we use the two form or the ing form.
Just as we saw with empezar or comensar, there can be a difference between using the two form afterwards or the ing form afterwards.
and both of them need a preposition to join the two form, which might be a clue to you that there is a difference between using the two form and then the ing form.
If the two form is joining with a preposition, then maybe this particular verb takes the ing form afterwards as well with a slightly different meaning.
Empesar a hablar to start to speak, to start speaking
Empezar hablando to actually begin something speaking or as we would probably say to start out speaking
Terminar de vender to finish selling.
Terminar vendiendo to end up selling.
So what we have aimed to teach here is the idea of the moot tense, the general feeling of the moot tense and the kind of constructions
in which it occurs and like I said understanding the mood tense is about listening out for it and listening out for how people around you use it.
A great way to learn it is to chat online, for example, because maybe in real life and almost certainly at the beginning you won't pick up those subtle changes in vowels
that you get with the mood tense.
But if you're chatting online, you will notice quite clearly, ah, oh there they used an A and not an E, or there they used an E and not an A.
Oh why?
And then you will look at the context of the sentence and work out why the moot tense was used, and that really is the best way to internalize it.